Now we need to do something with this,
right?
We want to capture this value because
we want to work on this value.
So let's go like this.
Let's call it session and
we put little, some people like text,
some people like dollar sign,
I don't really know what I like.
But effectively anything inside of
a dollar, parentheses is executed and
the standard out is then
passed into this variable.
This is how you can think about it.
So since SZF, whatever we select,
what we passed out,
we now have it saved as session.
There's another fun thing right here,
which is something called basename.
If you don't know what basename is,
it's another core util.
Here we'll go like this, session name,
oops, space, session_name=,
we'll do another one of these
little dollar signs and go session.
What this effectively does, I think you
probably should have that around there.
Oops, effectively what happens right here
is it's gonna take whatever's passed in,
like a file, and it's going to take,
it's like the final thing instead
of its file path, it's basename.
Awesome, so now, not only do I have the
full absolute path to what I'm trying to
work towards,
I also have just the folder's name.
This is fantastic, right?
And so to prove it, let's go like this,
echo session name, right?
Let's go.
Wait, where are you?
Session_name, there we go.
Awesome.
Go back here.
Let's re-execute this one.
Let's just select ansible.
Notice adjusted .ansible,
the folder that I did have right there.
Awesome, this is exactly what we wanted,
right?
We are now finding the thing.
So we have this part done, which I'd argue
is probably the harder part of the things
to do if you didn't know what
you're doing is grabbing this.
We are fuzzy finding.
We're awesome.
Now all we need to do is actually
just create the tmux utility to do this.
So, obviously I forgot to go
forward in our little script.
Let's create the script, right.
I can't go to the next part.
Don't look at the next part.
All right, so let's go back to our script.
Awesome, let's delete this line.
Now instead what we need to do is
we need to figure out some things
about tmux, right?
One thing we can do is we can do this,
we can ask tmux,
do you already have this session?
So a fun little thing
is called has-session.
So tmux has-session, and
you can provide it a target, so
that I can just call it session_name,
right?
There we go.
This will return to me
zero if it has it or
an error if it doesn't have it, which
means that I can do a if not has-session.
Then I should be able to jump in here and
go, okay, it doesn't have the session,
let's create the session.
tmux new-session, right?
And then I can give it a name.
Let's give it the name,
session_name, right?
And then we can give it the directory,
which remember,
that's what we selected from find.
So session, yeah.
Yeah, there we go.
We get those two things, and
of course, we need the detach it.
So if we're in tmux, we're not exploding.
You can't net sessions,
all that kind of stuff.
Awesome, we have it.
So now by the time we're up to this point,
we know for a fact,
we have a tmux session
with the given name.
And since we've already checked,
we knew it wasn't there.
We're guaranteed right here to have it.
So we just need to do a little
switch-client -t session_name, right?
There we go.
This alone will just make everything work,
right?
Now obviously I am making some
assumptions in the script.
I'm trying not to get
it super complicated.
But I am assuming that we're already in
tmux and running for this script to work.
Now, you don't have to have it that way.
I'm just trying to keep things
a little bit more simple so
we don't overly complicate it
with every possible ending here.
So there we go.
So we made a very simple script.
So I think all these commands are things
we've pretty much typed in except for
has-session.
So all of these should be
very familiar at this point.
We know how new-session works.
We know that switch-client allows you
to programmatically switch clients
to a session_name.
We know you can only
have one session_name,
the session_names have to be unique,
right?
So we're using our folders for
uniqueness of session_names.
Now, there are some extra rules around
this that we haven't quite done yet.
I should actually probably
do that right now anyways.
Session_names do not contain periods.
It can only contain certain
amount of characters.
And there's a fun little
programme called tr.
I know I'm kinda going
a little off the rails here.
So check this out.
If I go foo,
I can actually replace with tr.
Anything that isn't o, I can turn
it into a 1, so f11 instead of foo.
tr just simply takes in the standard end,
and
if it sees any of these characters
specified in the first part,
it replaces them with their
corresponding ones in the second part.
To make this more obvious,
let's put f right here and
put 2 right here, 211, right?
It makes a lot of sense.
tr is fantastic and
I use it surprisingly more than I ever
thought I would actually have used it.
Awesome, so let's go back here.
So anytime we see a period,
let's replace it with an underscore.
There we go.
Awesome, so now we can make sure that we
have valid session names at any point.
Perfect.
So now let's close this.
And now let's re-execute our sessionizer.
So remember, it's gonna give
us all these different names.
And we should be able to go like this.
Let's go to music.
And now we've created
a session called Music,
with one window in the Music directory.
That's pretty awesome, right?
We just did that so dang fast,
it went exactly where we wanted to do it.
And we still have our previous one that
we are just in, whatever that one is.
We have way too many
sessions open at this point.
We are right here in tmp, right?
That's where we're, right here
we just got done executing this.
And awesome, it worked.
So let's jump back to where we were.
And now you'll notice something,
can't find session : Music.
What just happened there?
Well, remember how we did talk for
a second about the redirect.
I probably should have given
a slightly better answer here.
Yeah, what's happening is
that when it can't find it,
it actually prints out can't
find it to the standard error.
So I can actually take 2 and
just pipe it to a place called dev null,
which just means pipe it
to the garbage can, right?
Pipe it to Michael Scott's filing cabinet.
It's exactly where it wants to be
[SOUND] and then we can do it again,
let's open up a new place
that we haven't done.
How about documents?
So now let's go back from where we came.
You'll notice no more error,
everything's great.
Our script is amazing.
It's not littering.
It's fantastic.
This is just exciting.
Is this not just exciting?
I hope that you guys feel
how exciting that was,
we were able to create these
sessions with no problems.
But there is obviously some
disconnections here, right?
How do you execute this program
in a reliable and easy way?
Right now it's just in
some sort of folder,
we actually have to navigate there and
execute it, that's not that great.
When I execute it and I go somewhere say,
ansible, how do you go back?
What's the easy way to go
back other than doing w, and
trying to search through all these things,
right?
But we're getting pretty close to
making the script really good, right?